Yeah, everything I found is refinement-level stuff — no showstoppers. Here’s a consolidated prompt you can give Replit:

StormTracker HTML App — Polish & Enhancement Fixes
1. Service Worker missing CSS cache
In docs/sw.js, add '/StormTracker/css/style.css' to the STATIC_ASSETS array. Without it, offline mode renders unstyled.
2. Move inline styles from index.html to style.css
The settings panel, travel mode popup, AI chat overlay, and location overlay are all built with hundreds of inline style="" attributes in index.html. Extract these into named classes in css/style.css. This doesn’t change any functionality but makes future theming and maintenance much easier — right now changing a color or spacing means hunting through HTML instead of one CSS file.
3. Guard against bad NEXRAD scan timestamps
In docs/js/radar.js line 242, new Date(scan.ts) could produce NaN if the Iowa Mesonet API returns an unexpected format. Add a guard after parsing:

const dt = new Date(scan.ts);
const time = Math.floor(dt.getTime()/1000);
if(isNaN(time)) continue;


4. Fill out the glossy icon pack
The glossy theme only has 16 icons while globe-animated has 43 and flat-filled has 34. Users switching to glossy will see fallback emoji for many conditions (thunderstorm-rain, haze, blizzard, snow-night, etc.). Either generate the missing glossy icons or add a visible note in the icon theme picker that glossy is a “compact” set.
5. Version string consistency
The HTML title says v2.84, the service worker cache name says stormtracker-v285, and the cache-busting query strings say ?v=285. Pick one version number and use it everywhere so the service worker always invalidates correctly on updates.
6. Silent catch blocks
ai.js line 186 has catch(e){} which swallows errors completely. At minimum add console.warn('AI parse error:', e) so issues are debuggable. Same pattern appears in core.js lines 1000 and 1020.
7. Consider splitting core.js
core.js is 3,082 lines with 240 functions — it’s the catch-all for icons, themes, settings, gauges, utilities, compass, tutorial, changelog, geolocation, favorites, translations, and more. If the app keeps growing, splitting the icon/theme system and the settings/preferences logic into their own modules (e.g. icons.js and settings.js) would keep things maintainable. Not urgent but good to plan for.

That’s really it. The app is in great shape — solid architecture, working NEXRAD + RainViewer radar, impressive feature depth for a zero-backend PWA. These are all “make it even better” items, not “it’s broken” items.​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​